# Meeting Minutes - November 1, 2023

## Administrative

   * Lead by Frances Paulisch
   * Minutes from last meeting to approve: 
       * [2023-10-18.md](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/blob/master/Meeting-Material/Meeting-20231018/2023-10-18.md)
       
## Welcome

   * Antitrust policy notice
## Status of Meeting setup

   * Maintainer Access to the repository was granted: [https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value)
   * Calendar for the next month meeting chairs:
       * November '23
           * 1.11.2023 8:00 UTC ; Frances Paulisch
           * 15.11.2023 16:00 UTC ; Frances Paulisch
       * December '23 (Dec. 6 (morning) and Dec. 20 (late afternoon)
   * Request to all that other regular meetings which are not currently scheduled based on UTC adjust to using UTC so that we can avoid conflicts
	
       
   * see extra-file in repo: [meeting\_chairs.md](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/blob/master/Meeting-Material/Meeting-Organization/meeting\_chairs.md)
   
## News


   * [*Administration*] PR for the Capabilities for the capability map in MD-Format was merged: [https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/tree/master/Tooling-Landscape/Capabilities](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/tree/master/Tooling-Landscape/Capabilities)
How to do offline collaboration? Marcel Kurzmann did an example in the Oct. 18 meeting of this round. Example with issue: [https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/issues/97](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/issues/97)
Homework for all to prepare to do this for other capabilities and tools. Of course, be aware that some tools fulfill more than one capability. This activity will be a big help in aligning and be a useful for many potential users. 
   * [*OSM for Embedded*] Meeting next to EclipseCon on Oct. 18: "Sharing FOSS License Management Data". See also  [ https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/blob/meeting_20231018_license_management_data/Meeting-Material/Meeting-20231018-EclipseCon-Sharing_FOSS_License_Management_Data/Meeting-20231018-EclipseCon-Sharing_FOSS_License_Management_Data.md]( https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/blob/meeting_20231018_license_management_data/Meeting-Material/Meeting-20231018-EclipseCon-Sharing_FOSS_License_Management_Data/Meeting-20231018-EclipseCon-Sharing_FOSS_License_Management_Data.md) Decision to have follow-up sessions and invited to join this community (will join and present on Nov. 15). 
   * [*Demo Sessions*] (from last meeting) We plan to have increased "demo-sessions" about the different approaches how OSM is currently done in Oniro/aliens4friends, DoubleOpen, Apertis, Eclipse Leda, Yocto etc. from those who are willing to present e.g. see initial set that was already done at [Automation Case Study - OpenChain](https://www.openchainproject.org/automation-case-study) Discussion regarding possible demo topics listed below.
## OpenChain case studies: collecting ideas for such demos, propose to Shane.
* Scanoss - maybe also including purl2cpe topic
* SW360 - multiple aspects
* others agreed to also consider

## How can we get additional visibility for our community?
* FOSDEM Fringe event â€¦
* Linked In presence individually, and make sure this group is aware so that we can share each others posts
* Check status of the web page and ability to update
* Idea to have a newsletter, first release after FOSDEM event (when that goes also point the ca. 80 in slack channel to that)


## Upcoming events

   * November 2023 7-8th Mercedes Benz FOSS Convention: [https://opensource.mercedes-benz.com/convention/](https://opensource.mercedes-benz.com/convention/)
   * December 2023 7-8th Linux Open Compliance Summit [https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-compliance-summit/](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-compliance-summit/)
       * Helio's talk: [https://ocs2023.sched.com/event/1TbwY/keynote-data-as-a-single-source-of-truth-helio-chissini-de-castro-cariad-se](https://ocs2023.sched.com/event/1TbwY/keynote-data-as-a-single-source-of-truth-helio-chissini-de-castro-cariad-se)
   * February 2024 3-4th FOSDEM'24 [https://fosdem.org/2024/#:~:text=FOSDEM](https://fosdem.org/2024/#:~:text=FOSDEM) 2024 will take place at the ULB
       * further events in Europe see [https://foss.events/Backlog](https://foss.events/Backlog) collection + potential Fringe event at FOSDEM
   * March 2024 4-5th FOSSBackstage'24 Berlin [https://24.foss-backstage.de/](https://24.foss-backstage.de/)
   * March 2024 6-7th ORT Community Days '24 Berlin [https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/wiki/ORT-Community-Day(s)-2024](https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/wiki/ORT-Community-Day(s)-2024)
   * Strive for an in-person event, perhaps in summer in Munich (Frances could co-host)
## AOB

   * ...
## Attendees (#)

* Frances Paulisch
* Stephen Kilbane
* Arun Azhakesan
* Ummo Schwarting
* Alexander Murphy
* Julian Coccia
* Helio Chissine de Castro
* Norio Kobota
* Jan Thielscher
