# OpenChain Automation Workgroup General Meeting Minutes - October 18, 2023

## Administrative
* Lead by Marcel Kurzmann
* Minutes from last meeting to approve:
   * [2023-10-04.md](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/blob/meeting_prep_20231018/Meeting-Material/Meeting-20231004/2023-10-04.md)

## Welcome
* Antitrust policy notice

## Status of Meeting setup
* Maintainer Access to the repository was granted: https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value
* Ownership for BigBlueButton still open
  
* Calendar for the next month meeting chairs (please nominate yourself for one month if possible):
    * November '23
    * December '23
    * January '24
    * February '24
    * March '24
    * April '24
    * May '24
    * June '24
    * July '24
    * August '24
    * September '24
    * October '24
    * November '24
    * December '24
* see extra-file in repo: [meeting_chairs.md](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/blob/master/Meeting-Material/Meeting-Organization/meeting_chairs.md)

## News
* [*Administration*] Proposal to use Framapad, PoC: https://mensuel.framapad.org/p/openchain-automation-work-group-a3tj?lang=en 
    - first trial started (one month)
    - everyone with the link should be able to edit
    - export to MD possible
* [*Administration*] PR for the Capabilities for the capability map in MD-Format was merged: https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/tree/master/Tooling-Landscape/Capabilities 
* [*Events*] October 2023 10-11th OSPOlogy event in Frankfurt: https://community.linuxfoundation.org/events/details/lfhq-ospology-european-chapter-presents-ospologylive-frankfurt/ has taken place
* [*Case Data Collector*](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/blob/meeting_prep_20231018/Tooling-Landscape/Capabilities/case_data_collector.md) Microsoft open sourced a SBOM-signing tool: https://github.com/microsoft/CoseSignTool
* [*OSM for Embedded*] Meeting next to EclipseCon this morning: "Sharing FOSS License Management Data". Decision to have follow-up sessions and invited to join this community. Plan to have "demo-sessions" about the different approaches how OSM is currently done in Oniro/aliens4friends, DoubleOpen, Apertis, Eclipse Leda, Yocto etc. from those who are willing to present
* ...

## Request for Participation
* [SPDX Export Control Profile] Alignment with Kate Stewart planned next week on how to proceed best as preparation for the next Export control working group meeting in November. JSON example available as starting point - searching for SPDX "development process" how to efficiently develop a new profile.

## Tool idea discussion
* ...

## Upcoming events
Overview moved to: TBD

* November 2023 7-8th Mercedes Benz FOSS Convention: https://opensource.mercedes-benz.com/convention/ 
* December 2023 7-8th Linux Open Compliance Summit https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-compliance-summit/ 
* February 2024 3-4th FOSDEM'24 https://fosdem.org/2024/#:~:text=FOSDEM%202024%20will%20take%20place%20at%20the%20ULB,give%20away%20goodies%2C%20sell%20merchandise%20or%20accept%20donations. 
  - 16 October deadline for developer room proposals 
* further events in Europe see https://foss.events/


## Backlog collection 
* ...

## AOB
* ...

## Attendees (#)
* Marcel Kurzmann
* ...
