# OpenChain Automation Workgroup General Meeting Minutes - October 4, 2023

## Administrative
* Lead by Marcel Kurzmann
* Minutes from last meeting to approve: ...

## Welcome
* Antitrust Policy Notice from OpenChain

## Status of Meeting setup
* Status quo - what do we have reached by now?
    - Common problem space: https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/blob/master/README.md 
        - slide 8+11: https://static.sched.com/hosted_files/osseu17/49/Leveraging_Open_Source_Projects_for_OSM_LinuxCon.pdf
    - Capability map
        - see https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/blob/master/Tooling-Landscape/CapabilityMap/OC_ToolingChain_v1.6.0.pptx 
        - also available as *.md but PR merge still open: https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/pull/95 
    - Reference Toolings
        - list of tools: http://oss-compliance-tooling.org/Tooling-Landscape/OSS-Based-License-Compliance-Tools/ 
        - see e.g. https://archive.fosdem.org/2021/schedule/event/open_compliance_reference_tooling/attachments/slides/4581/export/events/attachments/open_compliance_reference_tooling/slides/4581/FOSDEM_2021_Open_Compliance_Reference_Tooling.pdf 
    - Main Expectations to the meeting:
        - share news about tools and updates (mainly based on the tool list)
        - align context between process layer and tool layer (mainly based on capability map)
* Proposed setup
    - central documentation for all meetings in github: 
        - either https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/tree/master/Tooling-Landscape 
        - or https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/tree/master/Meeting-Material
        - good practice from SPDX-group (one central meeting folder and one *.md-file for each meeting): e.g.  https://github.com/spdx/meetings/tree/main/general
        - topic backlog in Github - new proposals by PRs
        - two meetings per month 
            * (March to October - daylight saving time)
                - first wednesday meeting at 10:00-11:00 CEST (UTC/GMT+2)
                - third wednesday meeting at 16:00-17:00 CEST (UTC/GMT+2) ???
            * (October-March)
                - first wednesday meeting at 9:00-10:00 CET (UTC/GMT+1)
                - third wednesday meeting at 15:00-16:00 CET (UTC/GMT+1) ???
            - Hint: the OpenChain Global Calendar shows static UTC-times
    - Use capability map as leading structure to sort topics, news, infos ...
    - Rolling chair e.g. every month
        - moderator for october: Marcel
        - Who can take over for november?
        - Proposal to have already a 12 month calendar to see if there are gaps (holiday etc.)
* Open points to clarify
    - Who is maintainer of "https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value"
    - Used system for the meetings? 
        - big blue button via fsfe (room-owner need to be clarified as desktop sharing, recording etc. is limited) 
        - Zoom via OpenChain
        - always a different system? like today?
        - how to manage different moderators and access rights
    - Proposal: Plan B) establish alternative org/structure below OpenChain 

## Structure for Capability Map - trial
- approval_flow.md
- audit_log.md
- case_data_analyzer.md
- case_data_collector.md
- compliance_artefact_generator.md
- dependency_analyzer_binary.md
- dependency_analyzer_container.md
- dependency_analyzer_source.md
- input_condition_management.md
- legal_solver.md
- license_copyright_authors_scanner.md
- license_repository.md
- management_3rd_party_components.md
- osg_rule_enforcement.md
- package_archive.md
- package_crawler_finder.md
- package_metadata_repository.md
- policies_rules.md
- reporting_analytics.md
- snippet_similarity_scanner.md
- tool_orchestrator.md
- user_role_management.md

## News
* [*dependency_analyzer*] SBOM comparison discussion started by Jari in the OpenChain Mailing list
* [*tool_orchestrator*] OSS Review Toolkit now with "Releases": https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/releases 
    - including official public "Docker-releases"
* Form OSSEU2023 Bilbao
- [*compliance_artefact_generator*] Updates from the SPDX Mini-Summit about Java and Python SPDX-tools
- [*case_data_collector*]/[*package_metadata_repository*] sw360 with "package" concept; Liferay will be replaced to allow easier maintenance and technical onboarding
- [*osg_rule_enforcement*] Fossology with "rule engine"
- [*snippet_similarity_scanner*] Fossology integrates ScanOSS from version 4.3.0 and thus provides all the features for snippet scanning
* [*general*] OSCLU from Thomas Steenbergen as new Linux Project for sharing material about Open Source Management in general from process level down to tool level including curations, package configurations etc.: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fxGEtqLy-u1NrN5LGEsuS-RV4YdCDZcC3zBE5vtPeyU/edit#heading=h.qoiuulcyta5i 
* ...

## Request for Participation
* [*case_data_collector*]/[*package_metadata_repository*] Idea to have further "SPDX profiles" but with less emphasis on the interchange btw. entities but also managing additional metadata within the organization
    * "Business profile"
    - Metadata about distribution type(s) e.g. hosted, distributed etc.
    - Metadata about business context e.g. way of distribution of FOSS compliance bundle
    * "Export control profile"
    - Metadata about contained encryption
    - Metadata about known contained ECCN
    - potentially all necessary data required to generate ECCN-evaluation
    - strong recommendation to contact SPDX about that idea and create an issue in SPDX (contact: Kate) => breakout sessions as follow-up (Matthew will follow-up)

## Tool idea discussion
* [*osg_rule_enforcement*] / [*policies_rules*] Discuss idea about using the new SPDX-info to support with tools that automatically generate ECCN-evaluation based on input information
    - Info: The Export Control workgroup is currently investigating about this - so there could be overlapping interests (contact: Stephen)
    - currently common list of cryptographic algorithms is consolidated (contact: Julian)
    

## Upcoming events
* October 2023 10-11th OSPOlogy event in Frankfurt: https://community.linuxfoundation.org/events/details/lfhq-ospology-european-chapter-presents-ospologylive-frankfurt/ 
* October 2023 16-19th EclipseCon Europe in Ludwigsburg: https://www.eclipsecon.org/2023 
    - News about SBOM from Siemens and Toshiba (sw360 and Fossology)
    - News about ScanOSS
* November 2023 7-8th Mercedes Benz FOSS Convention: https://opensource.mercedes-benz.com/convention/ 
    -  Plan to present the OSS Review Toolkit Community way of aligning "roadmap"/"backlog" issues from different organizations
* December 2023 7-8th Linux Open Compliance Summit https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-compliance-summit/ 
* February 2024 3-4th FOSDEM'24 https://fosdem.org/2024/#:~:text=FOSDEM%202024%20will%20take%20place%20at%20the%20ULB,give%20away%20goodies%2C%20sell%20merchandise%20or%20accept%20donations. 
- 16 October deadline for developer room proposals 
* further events in Europe see https://foss.events/


## Backlog collection 
* ...

## AOB
* ...

## Next Meeting
Date: 18.10.2023
Time: 16:00-17:00 CEST (UTC/GMT+2)

## Attendees (#)
* Marcel Kurzmann
* Coughlan Shane
* Kilbane, Stephen
* Matthew Crawford (Arm)
* Jimmy Ahlberg
* Dirk Riehle
* Martin Wagner 
* Alberto Pianon (Array) 
* Julian Coccia 
* Florent Zara (Eclipse Foundation) 
* Paulisch, Frances 
* Zavras, Alexios 
* Chissini de Castro, Helio (TP-C2) 
* Kobota, Norio (SGC) 
* Seck Lennart, JC-73 .
* ninjouji takashi
* Rakesh Prabhakaran
